The first mode of documentation we'll talk about are in-line comments.
By now, you've probably seen this many times,
texts following a hash symbol throughout your code.
They're used to explain parts of your code and
really help future contributors understand your work.
There are different ways comments are used
and definitely differences among great comments,
okay comments, and even users' comments.
One way comments are used is to document
the major steps of complex code to help readers follow.
For example, with the guiding comments in this function,
you don't really need to understand the code to follow what this function does.
If I was seeing this for the first time
and I had no idea what these functions or tools were,
these comments really help me understand the purpose of each block of code,
and even help me figure out individual lines of code or methods.
However, others would argue that this is using comments to justify bad code,
and that if code requires comments to follow,
it's a sign refactoring is needed.
Comments are valuable for explaining where code cannot.
For example, the history behind why a certain method was implemented in a specific way.
Sometimes an unconventional or seemingly arbitrary approach
may be used because of some obscure external variable causing side effects.
These things are difficult to explain with code.
These numbers for detecting edge levels in an image may seem arbitrary,
but the programmer experimented with different numbers and
realized that this was the one that worked for this specific use case.